#summary How to generate GPU (PTX) traces

= Introduction =

This page describes how to generate GPU (PTX) traces using GPUOcelot


= Build GPUOcelot libraries =

Please refer to http://code.google.com/p/gpuocelot/ to install GPUOcelot


= How to get kernel information =

 # Execute the following command for all cuda files.
{{{
nvcc --cubin --ptxas-options=-v -arch sm_20 *.cu
}}}
 # You will get following information.
{{{
ptxas info    : Compiling entry function '_Z7cenergyifPf' for 'sm_20'
ptxas info    : Used 26 registers, 48 bytes cmem[0], 64000 bytes cmem[2], 12 bytes cmem[16]
}}}
 # Write a file with following convention.
{{{
kernel_name register_usage shared_memory_usage
}}}
   * For example
{{{
_Z7cenergyifPf 26 0
}}}


= Setting env. variables =

GPUOcelot trace generator requires following information that is set with environmental variables.

{{{
export TRACE_PATH=trace_path_that_you_want_to_store
export USE_KERNEL_NAME=1
export KERNEL_INFO_PATH=kernel_information_file_that_you_created
export COMPUTE_VERSION=2.0
}}}


= Building a binary with GPUOcelot libraries =
 * Link against GPUOcelot libraries by adding following flags.
{{{
`OcelotConfig -l` -locelotTrace
}}}
 * Sometimes you many need to include boost libraries as well.
{{{
-lboost_thread-mt -lboost_serialization-mt -lboost_wserialization-mt -lboost_filesystem-mt -lboost_system-mt
}}}


= Copy GPUOcelot configuration file =

 # Copy configure.ocelot file from GPUOcelot.
 # Edit the following line in *trace:* section.
{{{
x86Trace: true
}}}
 * This is the sample configure.ocelot file content.
{{{
{
    ocelot: "ocelot",
    trace: {
        database: "traces/database.trace",
        ...
        x86Trace: true 
    },
    cuda: {
        implementation: CudaRuntime,
        runtimeApiTrace: "trace/CudaAPI.trace"
    },
    executive: {
        devices: [ emulated ],
        port: 2011,
        host: "127.0.0.1",
        optimizationLevel: none,
        workerThreadLimit: 2,
        warpSize: 4
    },
    optimizations: {
        subkernelSize: 1
    }
}
}}}


= Generating a trace =

 # Once you have your binary linked against GPUOcelot libraries, you just need to run your binary.
 # Then, traces will be created in TRACE_PATH directory.