#summary This page describes how to generate x86 traces.

= Introduction =

MacSim supports x86-ISA simulations. Although both single-threaded/multi-threaded applications are _runnable_, but the correct execution for multi-threaded applications are not guaranteed due to the lack of cache coherence protocol in MacSim.

We use PIN [[http://www.pintool.org]], a binary instrumentation tool, as a frontend emulator. We provide a pintool, called x86 trace generator, in MacSim repository (macsim_repo/tools/x86_trace_generator).

Please note that our trace generator may not be backward/forward compatible with different PIN versions. 
Currently, PIN *56759* revision (Jan 20, 2013) must be used. For older versions of macsim, please try to use PIN *41150* revision (June 07, 2011). 


= How to build the trace generator =

 # Download PIN
 # Modify makefile of trace_generator to set up pintool path
   * search PIN_HOME, PIN_ROOT, and PIN_KIT 
   * modify these according to your PIN path
 # Build trace generator
{{{
make
}}}


= How to generator a trace =

 * Assume you have a binary 'BIN' and a command to run 'BIN' is 'BIN arg1 arg2'
 * Assume pin binary is available or you need to use appropriate path (Usually, pin binary path is in *$PINTOOL/pin*
 * Execute x86 trace generator with PIN
{{{
pin -t ./obj-intel64/x86_generator.so -- BIN arg1 arg2
}}}


= Other options =

  * -trace : trace name
  * -skip : how many instructions to skip until the beginning of the trace generation
  * -max : maximum number of instructions to generate
  * -thread : number of threads to run

= Outcome =

{{{
trace.txt // trace information file
trace_0.raw // gzipped trace file for thread 0
}}}